Excess baggage

###dun laoghaire 2



- Reminder of Black Tuesday in Maam's Cross and you appreciate the comforts of a house. Me and Jasper joined Leonard, Mary and Morto who were yomping across Ireland from Dzublin to Galway and on to Achill Island. We teamed up on the bleak side of Galway, setting of from an outhouse beyond Oughterard and decided to cut across country to Maam's Cross.

- It was June 2006 and it had been raining for two months. The first couple of miles were through a forest and it was mellow enough to play talking games, and then we hit open country, where the Western Way was marked with wooden pillars and a sign saying the Way was closed. Arrogantly, we marched on, and nine hours later we had covered the nine miles of rocky, wet, exposed terrain, and we sat in the boozer for tea. We still had to walk another thirteen miles on the road to Leenane, where Leonard and Mary treated themselves to a B&B while me, Jasper and Morto had to pitch a tent inside one of those green deserts made of conifer trees.

The blackcurrent bushes in our garden - and now my sister's too - derive from Coolmine estate, because before it was turned into two schools and a leisure centre in the late '70s, a fella he knew told him to come over and grab a few plants for himself.

and in fact my dad remembers when it was all just fields. He used to come here to assess x

as, when it was being sold to the presumably council in the 70s, someone told him to come over take the bushes.

which was, to be fair, tastefully turned into a leisure centre, two schools, and the Millenium Park, and ancient yew trees and giant sequoias

estates unless they are your own for there are no shops or facilities within them.

and my dad used to be out here assessing weeds among the crops and advising farmers on how to #spray them

Dogwalkers and cyclists

over the canal slash trainline and then down to the Strawberry beds via

Blanch

- Canal greenway

- Diswellstown

- Rugged Lane entrance

- Paved now

- Backed up on the Strawberry beds

- People think that Blanch is near Lucan but it's actually 10k across a steep river valley

- Or else across the M50

Pay six nicker for the #privilege of dropping dinner over to my folks

The reason we've been living in Blanch, apart from housing-crisis desperation, is the fact that it's psychologically quite close to my family in Lucan, travelling between them is a joy because

The first part of the journey requires me to get to the Liffey from my gaff in Blanch, so I drop the same perpendicular as in the Poolbeg chapter, from the Snugborough Road Extension over the canal slash train bridge in Diswellstown, on the Blanch side of Clonsilla, and on to the Porterstown Road which skirts the top of the Liffey Valley.

One curiosity is that there have been roadworks here for like a decade, opposite the Maccie Ds ever since someone drove into the old demesne wall, and no one seems to want to take responsibility for fixing it. Perhaps the council are waiting until they own the land and can extend the demesne into the village and a path of interacting life can be restored to the river in parallel to the siloed dualler atop the esker above.

This time I turn right, after descending the freshy

It's the reason why Castleknock has maintained its high status

INSERT HOUSE PRICE MAP OF DUBLIN 15, IN QUANTILES, WITH MEDIAN DUBLIN PRICE LINE ACROSS IT.

Yr.no says the wind is travelling at six or seven metres per second but that's a unit I haven't internalized at all so I need to convert it into kilometers or even miles per hour.

The 20kph wind is in my face on my way to Lucan, but I'm sheltered by the trees between the river and this blissful road.

. I start out the same as in the Poolbeg chapter, rolling down through Diswellstown and Rugged Lane to the Strawberry Beds, but turning right this time for Lucan village, not left to Chapelizod. Six Degrees Celsius is also not a fail. I've discovered that temperature in Fahrenheit matches exactly against University grades.

40°F = 4.5°C, a third class degree, the barest of passes. Wear your coat and optional gloves.

50°F = 10°C, a Desmond Tutu. A bit crap but acceptable. Wear a jumper

60°F = 16*C, a II.1. A good degree. Wear a t-shirt

70°F = 22°C, a first class degree. Do as you please.

but I feel well wrapped up and my thermal gloves complete the job. There's a cross-headwind but that won't be for long.

This is a home fixture for me, at long last, but it's funny to stop and take photos of familiar sites.

- Lucan village

Weir, near flooded

Fella there who says it burst a while back, up towards the apartments

We reminisce on the flood of I think 1992 when the Griffeen burst and flooded Kenneys and O'Neill's pubs. He was in there that morning and I ask him if he was still going or getting started and he says he was in for a cure

That day was one of the happiest memories of my childhood as me and my dad went for a walk together to scope out the other flood point, near the entrance to the Demesne, where the NAME RIVER converges with the Liffey.

In my memory, it was Saturday June 16, 1992, and Sports Day in school was cancelled, so we all came home from Boarding School for Half Term [it was actually 1993]. Me and Big Val brought a disposable camera, which was something you only did when you want on like holidays, and I remember being distraught when they didn't develop properly.

I point out that it's a pity this chunk of river is set off from the village but your man reminds that me the council has bought the land off the Italian Embo so we'll be able to walk through it and connect up with the Lucan demesne and on up to Leixlip. This, I point out, will be an important step towards putting in a #greenway all the way in to town, and my brother-in-law only suggest the other day that Shackleton's mills might be restored as a tourist spot, given how darn famous Ernest Shackleton is. Your man makes the point that there should be space enough for a big car park in the Embassy grounds and that will take a lot of the misery out of the village, which is beautiful but nothing like as well-used as it could be.

It's nice to talk Lucan for once.

I grab a jar of jam for my folks from a regular street vendor outside the Protestant Church

Hub by the BP

- I can hear Yo la Tango singing My little corner of the world

- Dad's shop to the left

Avoid cos the main road is so shite

Also I have come to think that this junction is a natural

Drop in to my folks.

The days of handballing heavy bags of feed were already long over and the only way to survive was to either upscale onto lorries and forklifts, or else focus on higher-profit accessories and supplements.

and weekends and busy times like September an

had kids and her husband took over. She was seven months pregnant and lifting bags of horse feed on her shoulder into people's cars.

and banter quotient was something else.

There weren't enough people in the village to support a shop, but farmers

We never had many foreigners because none bar Brits lived in Ireland until the late 90s, and those that came weren't entrenched enough in the land to have animals.

Anybody can have a dog, whereas horses only belong to certain subg

so we'd get suburbanites from Lucan and Celbridge

between local farmers, horse people from up the mountains, horse people from the estates in Clondalkin and Tallaght, travellers in

I presume the latest batch of blow-ins have begun to outnumber the old divisions, between the old village and Mayo people planted here in the 1950s, including the family of Mary Harney and her cattle-farming brother Lar, wearing odd wellies

McEvoy's old thatch pub burnt down, just as the Polly Hops in Peamount did before it. The underpopulated village has finally been filled in, with houses and shops finally fill

I'm warm enough and soon the wind will be on my back as I start to arc eastward. This used to be my cycle route up to my dad's shop in Newcastle for all the summers I worked there, andIt occurs to me the there ought to be a cycle land

- My mam is out for her much-needed morning ramble.

- He lives in the moment, unconcerned for the past or future, like an accidental Buddhist monk

I remember when it was all just fields

Tubber Lane

- Covid lockdowns

- Trips with the baby on the bike,

- Photos before it's all gone

- Cillian Ryan lives here

Laundry went missing

Probably a legit mistake dbf,

But he was somehow wearing my same lime and navy t-shirt some time later

- Aderrig Parish

Remember when I

- Back roads

- Arthur's Way

- Dog on the corner, running after me every day

- Think of the fella who cycled from Ireland to Japan and the scariest part were packs of dogs in Romania or Bulgaria

- Train view

Can see the little known hills of NorthEast Kildare

Hazelhatch McEvoys

Boat people

Seems lime more than there used to be

- Danny Janssens

Niece married to my mate's brother, the sort of rural interconnection that I've never really had

The pleasantness but not of the nastiness of the Irish (?farmer?)

Belgian planter

Sense of humour 5% off

Compare Al Nolan

N

- Newcastle finally being filled up

Everywhere gets it eventually

This whole cycle will be impossible in a few years' time

- Dad's shop

Babs, zig&zag, Trish

Dick Smith,


Ballinacourty
GK
The flip side is that it's harder to make ends meet because he works for himself.

Marketing

I grew up on the Bill Hicks school of marketing, where marketers and advertisers are advised to kill themselves, an 'authentic' but nihilistic viewpoint similar to the Punk attitude of never selling out. But it has made me afraid of my own shadow and unwilling to put myself out there.

Duncannon. 

It's nice to see this depth of attachment to a craft.

 I take a crap photo with my 1% charged phone and h

, but clearly the job is even more deeply ingrained in his head than, say, me being a writer, which I struggle to identify with because i don't get paid for it and I'm too ashamed to just go for it.

We end up having a bit of coda chat about waste water issues and the lack of new housing in the town and he mentions being town foreman during the late Celtic Tiger, presumably before the town fell complete apart and I'm guessing it was his retirement age.

, where young Gen Xers probably learnt to rollerskate. Table TENNIs???

Shame of even talking about boarding school, a so-called privilege that automatically disqualifies you from suffering pain, something I've experienced even within my own family.


£££

Wicklow
I often imagine to be the ideal end for a race. The Mur de Wicklo

the Mur de Wicklow as I like to call it, imagining I am Dan Martin, even though I can barely stay on my

It's probably a 3k walk along the rocky beach to Five Mile Point where there is a legit road back. ### Wicklow Coastline

The Wicklow Coastline is not a much-heralded place, unlike the mountains which retreat from it. The southern chunk is decent, The beaches are rocky and grind up against your feet whereas

Wicklow Bay's undramatic shoreline

an old council estate on top of the hill at the back of Wicklow Town, with some of the best views in Leinster.

Wicklow Bay is in the foreground from the harbour to Newcastle - they fucked the esate up here to keep the riffraff out of sight but the town has expanded - in the distance are Bray Head, the sugar loaf and other lesser known hills along which the mountain range - o and from there I can look out acroos most of East Wicklow, al I kick off the trip in Ocean View, an old council estate on the hill at the back of Wicklow Town

with some of the best views

But not a lot happens along the Wicklow coastline either. The county covers a surprisingly short amount of latitude, being just 52k from the arse end of Arklow up to Little Bray on the Dublin border where the yin and the yang combine. That's only 4k longer than the span of County Dublin, thenceforth to Bremore Castle at the far end of Balbriggan, and 11k longer than the Wee county a little beyond. That explains why I reckon I can see, on a very clear day, the Carlingford Peninsula in Ireland's sunny north-east, just 112 flat-earth clicks away.

The good beaches begin south of Wicklow Head, a poor man's Howth Head, with cliff walks and a lighthouse that no one goes to cos the train service is so poor. But the northern half is notable only for is featureless, especially the 18k as the crow flies from Wicklow to Greystones.

*** Newcastle coast - an obscure part of the coast unvisited except by dogwalkers and fishermen - i've stretched into unwalked territory

The first part of the trip is to get to Bray which is easy on a bike, following the

Now I could take the so-called coast road from Wicklow-Rathnew to Newcastle but it is rather like the coast road running down most of Wexford, set back from the sea, and while it is a mellow to

The so-called coast road between Rathnew and Newcastle then on to Kilcoole is another one of those inland distributor roads with occasional laneways leading down to the sea. It's a nice quiet road to cycle but there ain't no seaside to be seen. But the coast itself is typically layered, with a long straight rocky beach and a single train line which connects Dublin to Rosslare.


Outtakes

It's lashing ninety outside and I'm praying it'll ease up soon so I can get a dry few hours before it pisses again around lunchtime. Yesterday was a day for the bike and the camera but Leinster were busy losing their third European Cup Final in a row, this time agin Toulouse, and I wasn't going to miss that for the world. I watched it with my folks, the two of them trembling like never before in their one hundred and seventy (plus) aggregated years, as the tense game moved into extra-time, after Ciaran Frawley missed a winning dropgoal by a cunthair, in a repeat of the 2014 semi-final, while a fella my size, the name of Antoine Dupont, repeatedly thwarted the Blue Magic.

Toulouse 31 - 22 Three Lose

We bumped into the lads in the airport after the first loss, away in France against La Rochelle in 2022. There was some issue with the baggage and our delayed carousel was beside theirs, and they stood in silence, all four-hundred stone of them, looking like they had seen Medusa, while Stuart Lancaster whispered in a few senior players' ears lest they remain petrified forever. Lord Only knows how they feel after three losses in a Sugar Ray.

driving test

on Friday morning we tried to reconstruct routes around the town based on dated maps from the NDLS. She finally nailed hill starts and

maths v english, concussion + drink, come out on English side ???

Swans flock on the little beach at the marina

Years ago, Scrimogen Payphone told me that the reason why Bray is so shite is because the town centre is too far from the strand. Then, having learnt their lesson, the Victorians put Brighton's centre right beside the sea. True or not. I always liked the theory because it fits in well with the long-standing view that Bray - aka Breirut - is a BradSwiss. Despite that annoying energy lull between the main street and the sea, there is good synergy between the geograoh

In recent years, Bray has become as fashionable as its beauty warrants and the town has enough internal momentum to keep one's energy afloat. 

But the problem now is that Bray is actually kinda nice, with synergy between its geography and street layout.  

the blunt cape of Bray Head that lay on the water like the snout of a sleeping whale.

undefined

 like Lonely Planet's number one off-the-beaten-track venue in the world, and 

once I've nudged through dozens of continental students and

a toothless ex-slash-live-junkie who is waiting for his house to come through. 

Bray - vibrant strand, tourists at the head end,

- ice cream, coffee, walking, swimming, little units

- rocky, not a nice beach to be on but

-- Joyce - Bray Head, whale quote

- Me and my ice cream sit down next to a member of the old Bray, a toothless man a bit younger than me who is hangng on

- teenage buskers struggle trhough a rendition of where is my mind but the lead singer's personality is light enough to make up for hte struggling drummer who reminds me of myself whenever I try to drum, overthinking it and thus getting it wrong.

- Brayrut and palestine flags

- the irony being how much more prestigious / affluent the place now is.

Bray

Shankill -

Google maps leads me to a pleasingly unmanicured park but the rain starts to come and I'm removing my socks while cycling. But then the buckets arrive and I have to rescue my trackie Bs again

It's a kilometer or two back to the last level crossing over the Now the path narrows to a foot-wide track and the

separating it from the foot of the hills is a thin strip of flat land called the Murrough

normally you can see Bray Head

